All right.
So we're looking at permissions on marshmallow and above the point of being granted permission when
it was installed and we have to request permission when the app runs.
So we enter the code to check so permission in our code.
The last video to find out if we have the required permission or not if the permission hasn't been granted
and it won't have been the first time the app runs they will get permission and it's good to know that
when we call check self permission.
So that means we have to request the permission in our code that this should be fairly straightforward
except that the users can deny the permission and they can also take a box so that they won't be asked
again.
So the flight shutter I'm putting on the screen now shows the options and the various states that our
card has to handle.
So when we check the permission by calling the check self permission method will automatically be granted
permission.
Our divorce is running IP 22 or earlier so that it's easy and there's nothing more we need to do on
IPR 23 and above.
So we have to request permission from the user.
That's still quite straightforward.
If the user grants the permission then we can proceed and everything is fine but the user may decide
to deny the permission.
So let's have a look at what I say the first time they're asked to grant the permission to use or allows
the permission then that's fine.
But if I choose to deny it we have to decide what we're going to do and how we're going to deal with
the situation.
In some apps you could just decide what was the particular functionality that requires that permission
in out.
So that's not really an option.
All the app does is access to contacts records.
And without the necessary permission to do that it's a bit of a pointless app.
It gets slightly more complicated because the next time the app is launched after the permission has
been denied the dollar offers another choice.
So this time there's a box to take not to be asked again.
So they use it ticks that box the only option provided is to then deny the permission.
Now that can be a bit confusing to us as developers and the documentation doesn't make it very clear
unfortunately.
But when they choose to allow the permission then they won't be asked again.
That sort of Medich once you've allowed the permission then it remains allowed unless you go into settings
to change it and have a look at that later if to use it ticks that box and denies the permission.
They won't be asked to allow it again.
So I just won't get the permission and we have to cater for that in our code.
And once again some apps could just disable that particular functionality that needs the permission
but our contacts app becomes useless without it.
So going back to the flowchart we can say that the situations where permission is granted are easy to
do which will lead to situations where permission is denied for now and we'll come back to that once
we've got the app working.
All right so let's get back to our code now and the Antwoord framework provides methods to handle requesting
the permission from the user at runtime.
So the first thing we have to do is check the value we got back from calling checks self permission.
So I get to add the code and then we'll go through it here after the log after the has read contact
permission.
Variables are variable line.
We could add the code if parentheses has read contact permission.
That's equal to package manager got permission granted that will open a code block and then we can locked
up the parentheses tag and we'll just indicated the message on create colon missing right you get can
read granted is equal to true.
However I'm also going to put a comment here to do.
Don't do this else.
Open up a block like talk the parentheses.
Tecoma double quotes uncreate colon.
That's requesting permission to be denied.
And that's kind of the activity.
Compact dot request permissions.
Parentheses.
This comma spice a real parentheses.
That's going to be redone returns more context then a closing what parentheses comma.
Then request a scorecard.
I was great.
I was called context.
In closing parentheses.
And also take this opportunity to log when the uncreate method finishes last at a quarter.
Then I'll talk to a parentheses comma on Create call ins.
OK so looking at the code starting on line 32.
So it's the result we got back from calling check.
So permission was permission granted then we have the permission we need how we can carry on.
We'll need to know that we have to read.
I was called context permission later before we try to access the contacts with when the flighty action
buttons clicked.
So I was storing true in the right granted field on line 34.
Now we could just call the check so permission method every time we need to know if the permissions
granted.
But for now I'm going to store the result.
That's a common thing to do but it is often a bad idea.
So I'm going to demonstrate the problems it can cause a slider.
So following on from the code if the permission wasn't granted the else codebook is executed starting
on line 36.
So at that point we need to request that permission and we can do that by using the compact form of
request permissions and you can say that carried on 1:37.
Once again there is also a method built into the framework but that will only work on IPR 23 and above
earlier devices don't know about this new security model so they have to use the compatibility versions
of those methods from the Android that support the for app package.
If you you're targeting IPR 23 and above the card will be always the same but you can leave out the
compare the context compact and activity compare class names when calling the methods.
Now it's almost the same because you don't have to pass this to the framework methods.
The framework check so permission is called on the context and request permissions is called on the
activity.
So there's no need to parse this to provide either the context or the activity that compatible requests
permissions method does need to know the activity though.
And that's why the first parameter is this going on long 37.
So next we provide an array containing the names of the permissions we were requesting.
Now we only want to request a single permission but it still has to be provided in a string array because
that's the top of the parameter.
You can check that by clicking on the method name and calling up the documentation
and it could say you've got permissions here.
It's a string a right now there's quite a lot of description here.
There's documentation so it's well worth a read to understand how it all works.
You might want to read it after we've got this app working though because I will be writing the on request
permissions result Colback method next and it may make more sense once you've seen that working code.
Also I suggest you read through the garden I caught up in my browser in the last video.
The other documentation itself can be a bit confusing and has resulted in some overly complex code on
the Internet.
Earlier versions of the documentation gave the impression that the app had to code request permissions
every time it runs.
Which isn't the case it's mostly what you say.
How are we going to write the code for this app.
Read through the documentation and it should all make more sense than trying to work from the documents
alone.
I can't set a follow parameter to request for missions.
As a result code and I've used a constant that I created earlier to get back to our code.
This one here.
So the reason for that constant is because when you call the request permissions method you don't get
the result.
Next try to wipe the system pops up a dialog or the dialog that we saw in the slides earlier to ask
the user to grant the permissions.
No uncreate method waited for the user to either grant or deny the request.
That would be blocking and that's almost always never a good idea with an Android application.
Though we discussed that when we were looking at async tasks in the top 10 down Latterman flick browser
apps it's not a good idea for apps to block the UI thread and prevent the users from answering their
phones.
So instead the Android framework displays the dialog and the request permissions method returns immediately
to find out whether the permission was granted or denied.
What we have to do is implement a Kolpak method that will be called once the user has made that decision.
So let's actually wrought that.
I will put this straight after the uncreate method.
Going don't come down here.
And start immediately below the uncreate method of a set.
Now we can get into Judaea to generate the stub for us.
I'm going to do a control do a search for on request topic on request permissions.
So if we find the one we want press into there and at the stop I'm going to talk this discouraging and
talk about it.
For now I'm going to delete that first learn that super cool and I can add a lot.
It looked like a print to see Tecoma double quotes on request permissions result
call starts going to be when parentheses request code block request it was called Times corporators
call contacts desk right and so on.
Then left and right Kelly Price.
Then within that we're going to put rate granted Eco's if parentheses want results.
Dot is not empty and got results at the wrong square Bryce's and then zeros that index 0 is equal to
package manager dot.
Permission granted the parentheses.
Then I've got a code block there.
So at this point in terms of our code we can note here that permission was granted but the arrow Gawai
short lengths of permission was granted.
Yea and then to the contact's related task we need to do it.
So what is a return tree there.
Otherwise who else.
And the code block again.
Permission.
At this point we get to this part of the code you know.
So I want to disable the functionality that Tippins this permission.
I would just add a log entry there.
Well a print the CS on request or solitare come up quite on request
permission permissions result Colan commission refused.
And I should probably do that on top of that.
Let's also put a log entry there above the true so we can see whether the permissions were successful
or not.
So pensions granted that one and he's going to return false and false.
They wrote down the bottom here just before the end of the function.
We looked at the parentheses Tecoma quotes from the quest Commission's result the mission's result Kallen
is now lifted this code almost verbatim from a Google training document.
I want to quickly bring that up on the screen
because quote and the section that we're looking for is handle the permission the permission request
response this part code the code here they can say the card is very similar to what's showing and it's
almost verbatim.
Now we're going to be adding a bit more to it later to do with the permission being denied.
But this will do for now just to get an idea of what's happening.
Basically when Android calls this method for us it'll pass in the response card that we provided when
we call the request permissions method and get back to our code.
That's what the constant request time is code does call rate was called contex is for when a larger
app we may well be requesting several permissions an app that records video for example would need to
get access to the camera.
The maake are fired and also to storage so that it can save the video by providing a unique response
code when calling requests permissions.
We can tell which particular request we getting the results back for now.
There's only one request.
We don't need to switch statement to check which one the results apply to.
But it is useful to see how to handle multiple requests from a single activity.
So that's the request right.
The first parameter the next one is permissions.
Last year the next two arguments of both arise we got permissions.
Also got krump results as you can say the first contains the permissions we have requested and the second
contains the result for each permission.
It's possible that the user could grant some permissions and annoy others if requested several at once.
So this allows us to check which ones were accepted and which were denied.
Now again we've only requested a single permission read the SQL contacts so we're only interested in
the first item in the Grundt results right.
And he can say the card for that on line 16 on if that permission is granted then we can set the Boolean
field right granted to true.
So we know we do have the permission we look at things we can do it.
Permission is not a bit lighter.
I know that with the permission is denied then rate granted will be false and once again we really shouldn't
be doing that.
As I mentioned it may be an obvious thing to try to do when you do it and get in a mess it's not immediately
obvious what's causing the mess.
And if you've done any web development work then you'll know exactly where I'm going with this.
Don't try and sides right.
That doesn't mean much to you Don't worry it will soon become clear.
So that should work and we've got some luggin card now that will let us see what's going on.
I'll stop the video here and in the next one we're run the app and see what happens when the user accepts
and denies the permission.
So you in the next video.